---
layout: post
title: "Anti-Enshittification"
logline: "Why I'm taking back control over my creative stuff."
---
I've been a fan of Cory Doctorow ever since listening to his award-winning novella "The Man Who Sold the Moon" in a _Best of_ Sci-Fi collection about a decade ago.

Last year, I listened to _Enshittification_ and it really resonated with me.

First outta the gate: I realize that Doctorow's book represents the culmination of what I am aspiring to do with this blog (see _Thinking Aloud_): he made and collected keen observations, noted trends and follow-on effects over time, analyzed his findings and reached a conclusion, then crafted a compelling argument both for his thesis and his ideas for how to fix it.

Disparate ideas bumped around in his head, and he shaped a new constellation in his night sky out of those collisions. _Enshittification_ is his way of sharing his sky map.

His point is so obviously apparent that you think, "Why hasn't anyone else brought this up before?!" Plus, who doesn't like the word _enshittification_? (As a wannabe writer and a lover of language, I wish I'd thought of it.)

But on an even deeper level, the book reawakened my desire to protect my own creative output more fiercely. Whether simply as a pawn to the greater cultural influences of the 21st century, or for more deep-seated personal reasons^1^, I have always been a bit weak-kneed when it comes to championing my own work.

Somehow, through Doctorow's discussion of _interoperability_, I was able to recontextulize my own creatie output. To recognize that I shouldn't just be giving away the products of my insight, experience, and creative instincts and then shrugging my shoulders when they get repurposed, pruned, or outright reworked.

So, in addition to all my other resolutions for 2026 (I've got a bumper crop this year!), I'm going to try and be kinder to my maker self, honor the things I come up with — even in their early, imperfect _draft_ stages — and endeavor to document and revisit them rather than chucking them aside as soon as new project grabs my attention.

This represents a significant change for me, so the results remain to be seen. I'm hoping to document any projects I actually do accomplish on my _sluv_ website.

For now, here's hoping that I can cobble together some -worthwhile-^2^ artistic expressions in 2026, and if you are a maker/DIYer/creator then I extend that wish to you, as well. _Cheers!_

"You get whatever accomplishment you are willing to declare."<br>_Georgia O'Keeffe_

<div class="footer">
    <p class="footnote">
        1. _Hoo boy_, I think there are more of these than I care to admit. Fodder for future posts!
    </p>
    <p class="footnote">
        2. Dammit, there's the problem right there. I set a crazy high standard for what constitutes a project being _worthwhile_. I need to free myself to create more, critique less. _Let's Stuart Smalley this bitch!_
    </p>
</div>
